so i i know that today's interview was
just a little bit different so you know
a lot of times when people come on on
stream like
it's all about negative emotions and and
things like that
and you know people are crying and
whatnot but
i think it's important to remember that
really the goal of the stream is to be
like educational right and help people
understand different slices of life and
a lot of times those slices of life are
a little bit negative but it's
interesting because a lot of the
questions we get are like how do i do
this like how do i become successful how
do i understand the flow state how do i
enter the flow state how do i you know
what what are the pieces of that and the
really interesting thing about lyle is
um i think he's he's done a good job of
like stumbling on a lot of this stuff
through his own
explorations and so
it's really more a little bit
about understanding the flow state like
how to do creative work how to be a
little bit successful by carving out
your own niche
and those are all like important topics
for people as well so i know that
sometimes it's not quite as you know
entertaining
in terms of like voyeurism but hopefully
it was helpful to people who are curious
about this kind of stuff
anyway welcome friend
thank you for having me
thank you for coming on i see you are uh
you appear to be a gecko
i i i do appear to be a gecko i uh i
spent like while you were running late i
actually i was glad you were running
late because it gave me some time to
like i was trying to screw around with
my uh background because i normally have
like
clouds or outer space or something but
uh
it didn't work
yeah so um can you tell me what you go
by like what do you want me to call you
should i call you
yeah
how do i you he's you can you can just
call me lyle that works okay lyle yeah
so tell me a little bit um you know do
you have a is there a particular topic
that we're talking about today or um
you know something in particular that
interests you
i don't know i guess the
there's like a sort of
maybe it's trite but like the idea of
you know what's what's you know if
you're a a person who
you know talks to people about their
problems on the computer it's like what
are your problems you know but i don't
know that felt cliche
to me in a way isn't you asking
me what my problems are or i'm asking
you what your problems are
i guess i guess you asking me what my
problems are but i think this is sort of
interesting because well i mean you're a
real therapist
and i'm a gecko
guy
yeah i mean are you
are you not a real therapist
no
oh okay
oh wait did you not know that no i i
wasn't sure
oh okay okay yeah
i hope i didn't like yeah i hope i
didn't want to feel like i was tricking
you
no i i mean i i i think you're pretty
transparent in in you know that this is
a character and an act and at the same
time i actually you know have no idea
about what your educational background
is or things like that so i try not to
assume
but um if you want to you know talk
about or share uh something about maybe
things that you struggle with or stuff
like that sometimes people like to get a
different perspective
um
and so we can definitely do that
a lot of times people will want to talk
a little bit about
stress related to
you know being a particular character i
think interestingly enough um you know
it's very overt that you or a character
might assume once again that lyle once
the makeup comes off and the gecko suit
comes off that you're a different person
but one of the things that i notice with
a lot of content creators is that it can
be hard because their content creator
personality can conflict
or almost like even dominate their like
real personality and that can be really
hard to kind of struggle with
um yeah
oh it's funny you say that because i
actually i don't feel like i am all that
uh
different
uh from who i really i really i mean i
feel like every like you know
uh you know online persona is just like
an exaggerated version of who the person
actually is
and so i i think that i'm as much of a
character
i think that the the the being on camera
and broadcasting myself
is like
what would make me a character more so
than the fact that i'm wearing a gecko
costume i actually i made a i made a
pretty intentional like uh decision not
to like
hammer so hard into a character because
like you know it's one thing if you're
like you know borat and you're like
making a skit for three minutes or
something but like if you're streaming
for hours and hours and hours a day
and i'm you know up there talking about
eating bugs or whatever
you know that just i feel like that
would just have gotten exhausting if i
had like committed really hard to like i
am a gecko and all that you know
yeah so what i'm hearing is that to
retain some of your sanity
you can't go too far away from being
your authentic self
yes absolutely
yeah that's well said i think it so can
you just tell me a little bit lyle about
um
[Music]
so you know if you're okay with it i'll
just ask you a couple of questions about
how you got to where you are and then if
there's something that um maybe we can
talk about that would be interesting to
you or helpful like by all means
um and then if you've got questions for
me you know feel free to jump in at any
point so can you just tell me a little
bit about you know how you got to
being a therapy gecko on the internet
sure um
well
it was a quarantine and uh i started um
going live on instagram with my friends
just sort of
screwing around and
talking about nothing and like there
would be you know two people
from my high school watching and uh it
was a lot of fun i liked
live streaming and i sort of thought
like
oh i wonder if like i could kind of do
this like in front of people who do not
know me
and uh so i kind of had that thought in
the back of my head and then uh
so there was that and then i made this
other like youtube video uh where i
and one of the one of the costumes was
was a gecko so i had a gecko costume
that's prong too
and then uh
do you know about reddit streaming like
rpan is yeah yeah yeah
i know that tries to get me to watch
their live stream a lot but
yeah everyone hates them the top the top
post it's it's a it's called rpan yeah
and the top post every week in rpan is
how do i disable
rpan you know everyone really doesn't
like them but uh
i i started street i found our pan and i
thought it was really interesting in
like a cool community because it's it's
sort of different from twitch because
twitch is like gaming focused and rpan
is like
more sort of anything um
and so the combination of those
three things i started streaming on uh
reddit as a lizard
and and uh posting clips from tick tock
and
all of a sudden it became
what i do to exist
wow
so how long did it take to become what
you do to exist what are we talking
about in terms of a journey here
fairly quickly uh like you know i i
started on um
rpan and then i started a i started a
twitch like two months
after that and my twitch sort of grew
enough that it became like a lucrative
thing to do and now
it's i am i am therapy gecko awesome man
so how has how's that journey been for
you
uh it's been a lot of fun it's been cool
um
how has it been
um it happened really fast i feel very
grateful because i know a lot of people
like you know i i don't i've only been
streaming for like
a year and a half and i know that it
takes a lot to get a stream off the
ground so i feel uh
you know grateful that i i was able to
kind of make this into a thing pretty
pretty fast
yeah
yeah it's interesting a year and a half
i i can't tell if that's really
i mean it sounds like on the one hand
it's fast right because some people will
stream for years and slowly grow and on
the other hand it's still like a year
and a half of your your life bro
yeah that's true that's true yeah so it
sounds like you've been working at it
for a while and putting in kind of
thought and effort
yeah and you know i'd been like do i'd
been like
making things on the internet for
like you know since i was like 13 years
old you know and i
did uh
stand up from the time i was like 16
to uh like 22. so i'd been like
i guess if you could call twitch
streaming performing you know performing
uh you know
for for a while
wow that's interesting can you tell me a
little bit about what
drew you to making things on the
internet at the age of 13.
uh
yeah
i guess uh i had this uh like
i had this i can't describe it but i had
this like
internet show thing when i was 13 i
called it i weekly and uh i was just
ripping off of robot chicken like i
would take like
little dolls and stuff and like act out
little things and then like cut to
another little thing with
dolls or mcdonald's toys i had
lying around that was
actually that was when i was in like
fifth grade
i think
and uh i've been pretty much making
stuff on the internet since then
so what drew you to making stuff on the
internet in the fifth grade
i don't know i think that that's like a
sort of
like
like pot like every every kid wants to
be like an internet star in a way like
you would see like fred and
smosh and [ __ ] and be like oh that is
cool i want to have as many
you know youtube subscribers as fred and
so you just start making stupid videos
on the internet which is interesting
because i feel like that's gotten i feel
like that's
multiplied itself by
10 000
now with uh you know tick tock and all
that
yeah so it sounds like you you were you
actually like you know you created stuff
and you
were looking
almost like you had a goal in mind right
which is that you wanted to be like
these people who had
a lot of subscribers and and created
content and
i think so i think so i'm trying to
it's so hard i i'm so bad at going into
like my past with uh man whatever i i
hear people like whenever i hear someone
like give a
uh uh
intricate story about their childhood
i'm like how the hell do you remember
that i'm like trying to
think about what my motivations were
when i was in fifth grade and i don't
know how deep they were but i that that
that that might have that might have
been it yeah no i and by the way lyle
it's it's completely normal to not have
you know not remember what you were
thinking in the fifth grade
i i thank you
thank you you know so like validating
that so the interesting thing is if you
really look at like memories from our
past yeah generally speaking i think um
you know the prevailing theory or at
least the one that i subscribed to is
that most of them were constructed after
the fact
so like i'm really surprised when my
kids will like
remember things from when they were i
have a four-year-old and a six-year-old
so they'll like remember like my
six-year-old will remember things from
when she was three i don't think she
remembers i think she just has heard the
stories and so she constructs a memory
it's a lot of time
yeah so like a lot of times if you
really kind of look at it and there's
some meditation techniques and stuff
around this as well
most of what we remember or impressions
and then the narrative that you hear
people construct or the narrative that
you hear people share is actually
constructed
based on like some kind of memory
impression
um and there's like a lot of blanks
being
sort of filled in yeah absolutely so you
kind of have like some kind of imprint
and then
you know like you fill it in
and then like human beings try to form
narratives about themselves it seems to
be incredibly adaptive and so you know
at some point you know in your mind
you're kind of conceptualizing who you
are and how you've become a gecko and
what it means to be lyle as a gecko
and where is the lile and what is the
gecko so i think it's normal to not you
know have well-constructed memories
um and even
even people like myself who will you
know tell stories and my stories come
across as coherent from my past
tend to be like storytelling right it's
not like i really i mean i'll have
particular memory impressions which are
powerful and emotional and then since
i'm you know then i'll construct a
narrative around that which then makes
sense to other people
and so you're like exaggerating certain
parts of it to fit in to like make a a
story
i wouldn't say that clear beginning
middle and end yeah so i wouldn't call
it exaggeration but i'd say that if you
really think about it what you're doing
is filling in the gaps absolutely right
so and our mind does this automatically
like as it makes sense of things you'll
kind of reinterpret things and then
realize oh the reason i did that was
because
you know so for example like
you know the reason i got bullied is
maybe because of you know i was a year
younger than everyone in my class and
everything was related to sports and
stuff like that so i was like a
five-year-old competing against
six-year-olds and so that's the reason
that i sucked at sports was because you
know a six-year-old will destroy a
five-year-old in basically any sport
um
and as actually i started school when i
was four so i was like a four-year-old
competing against five-year-olds and so
it was like not even a contest
and then
i can say that no wasn't impressive it
was actually i got i got rolled
but though it was impressive that you
you you were you were four but you
decided to do it anyway even if you were
scared
yeah so you know that that's see there
that's kind of interesting what you did
there because you said i decided to do
it anyway because i was scared so if you
say something like that it constructs a
narrative of me being impressive
but actually what happened is
i go to pe i dread pe every single day i
don't have a choice i know if i cry i'm
gonna get bullied more
so it wasn't like a testament to my
bravery it was like you know being
marched off to the
you know like a the noose every single
day
and so it was it was a harrowing
experience but as we kind of put that
together even that is sort of like i
remember the fear and so what i'll do is
like fill in the gaps around it to kind
of construct a narrative about my
experience
right and you can reframe it to say that
you were brave
sure i mean i i try not to but
but yeah absolutely sometimes people
will reframe things to make themselves
appear better or more noble
and in my experience that doesn't
actually help and being honest about
your negative emotions and when things
are hard for you is actually
healthier
but that's
i like that
so what do you kind of remember about
growing up and what was growing up like
for you
i grew up
in a
suburban jewish neighborhood
uh
we we did i i went to hebrew school
uh i went to
sleep away camp
i was thinking about camp today because
like years ago i was at the jewish
community center
camp
that was fun
uh i had uh i see my parents divorced
when i like 2 000
four
maybe
that was a big that was a that was a big
thing
um how old were you at the time
ah man i was
how [ __ ] old was that
like young like i had to be like
six or seven or something like that
okay
and you said that was a big thing what
does that mean
uh i don't know it's just like like i
don't like think about it that much
because like it doesn't affect me that
much in my current life it's something i
never think about like you know i know
it's like
for a lot of families it's devastating
but for me it wasn't that like
big of a deal i guess but like
i remember like i just i just remember
like that being a
big thing when it happened which i guess
makes sense in a way
i know this may sound like kind of a
weird question lyle but in what way was
it a big thing
uh
i don't know maybe i just said that
i i i don't have like a
it i guess it wasn't a big thing now
that i think about it so let's let's
learn for a second okay so i'm going to
make an observation okay
so do it
remember we said that when you're young
you have just impressions
but when i ask you about it you don't
have clear memories and so before you
walk yourself back from the big thing
chances are the only impression that you
got left with was that it was big
right which is
literally exactly what we were just
talking about and so if i ask you about
it and you're not able to provide
answers it doesn't mean it wasn't a big
thing it just means you were
six
yes and so like what are you gonna
remember that is correct the
complexities of why your parents get
divorced when you're six that is correct
it was a big thing i can't dive further
into it because i was sick and have
like i cannot form other words to say
sure that creates
it
but i i but i remember like when i was
you know i mean it was a big thing in my
family like when i was like
you know by the time that both of my
parents had remarried it was like
i mean it was actually kind of a great
thing in a way because i mean the
circumstances of it
uh you know might not been as great but
like it ended up being good because they
they my my mom and my dad are not
very uh
like compatible with each other they're
kind of polar opposites
so it's kind of it's good that they
remarried to other people got it so it
sounds like it ended for the best
ended for the best exactly yeah
so just to think a little bit about
constructing narratives so we're gonna
toss out a couple of things okay let's
do it so you remember how you were kind
of saying that
people will
reinterpret things and make themselves
potentially feel braver right we'll tell
ourselves tell ourselves stories that
result in like positivity and the
reframing of negative things into
positive things
yeah yeah
so a very common thing that i hear have
no idea if this is actually the case
with you but just for something for you
to think about is oftentimes divorce
sucks for kids
and sometimes what children will do is
in order to kind of smooth everything
over and not be angry and resentful to
our parents for throwing our life into
chaos at the age of six
what we'll do is the whole family will
share and construct a narrative of it's
for the best because mom and dad are
both happier now and it's good to have
happy parents for happy kids
and and i'm not saying that that's right
or wrong or or whatever it's just a
common pattern that i've seen that a lot
of people will kind of reinterpret
things in that way and i'm not talking
because i have no idea what exactly
happened with your parents or anything
like that sure but it's just such a
common occurrence for us to say oh like
divorce actually was for the best like
sometimes you know
i i will say things about that in terms
of my life like i'll say like oh you
know failing out of college was a really
formative experience for me and made me
who i am which is absolutely true
but yeah also it was awful
like it was a terrible experience to go
through yeah sure
i will say
i
i do believe that the
uh
idea that everything happened the best
is something i genuinely decided
on my own i don't think it was like uh
like i i wouldn't i don't i i don't look
at it at all as like a narrative i
crafted to like have to deal with like
you know i totally think that it was it
was for the i mean i don't think like
yeah i i don't remember like uh you know
i don't i don't really have like any
it's not it's not a tragic
sort of part of my life or anything like
that i genuinely truly do believe it's
it was it was for the best and can you
help me understand how you came to that
genuine decision
oh yeah i mean i just i mean just
looking up who my parents like you know
just looking at who they're with now
yeah versus like like versus like each
other like
their spouses are who they're currently
married to are like
you know and any anyone could look at
them and say objectively they are much
better with the people they are with now
than uh the people that they you know
each other
so i'm hearing that you're you're both
your parents married far more compatible
people
oh for sure
and so as a result you know it's like a
no-brainer that they're like with
compatible people and being in a
relationship with someone that you're
compatible with is objectively better
than being someone in a relationship
with someone that you're not compatible
with which makes perfect
and it doesn't have to be some kind of
weird psychological
re you know retelling of history or
anything like that it's just like
honestly yeah exactly they just weren't
right for each other and they found yeah
i almost i feel like i feel nerve like
not nervous about this but like i do i
you know
when talking to you i i wanna i'm trying
to be conscious about like like in my
like i like my parents divorce is not
like a big like i i don't believe that
like
we would go down this whole
rabbit hole that would be like oh my
parents divorce is actually the root of
my entire problem i i genuinely don't
believe that i'm trying not to
talk in a way that would lead us down
that rabbit hole because i don't think
it would be
i don't think it would lead anywhere
yeah sure so what do you think
somewhere
i don't know
i thought i was kind of you know i you
know what's i thought was kind of funny
is that i was uh i was like watching
some of your stuff
uh i'm a fan i was watching to like
prepare to come here and i heard you
were talking to a
poke you were talking to pokemane
and you said you asked her what you
should you should call her
and uh you said like poke she's like
pokeman is more of a character and you
said you don't like characters
and i was like oh i'm about to show up
on this guy's stream he hates characters
i'm gonna show up
as a gekko
and
what was the conclusion that your mind
came to from that
i don't know
i think
but i don't know i'm not really i guess
we already sort of talked about this but
i'm not really like a
character
or anything
is it important for you to show up in a
way that i would like
uh i
i guess so i mean i don't wanna i did i
didn't think i was gonna piss you off by
showing up as a gecko
but
yeah would it be okay if you did piss me
off
i'd like to not piss you off i
appreciate that feeling is mutual
and
would it be okay if it did piss me off
i think i could i think i could get over
it if i if i pissed you off
yeah i don't want to piss you off but i
don't i wouldn't
it wouldn't destroy me if i pissed you
off yeah and i i'm i'm happy to hear
that because i think you know we're not
here for you to make me happy
sure that's not why we're here
and i'd say if you pissed me off i'd say
like you know me getting pissed off is
more on me now if you're acting in a way
that's like toxic or disrespectful or
malicious then i think that is fair to
blame but i mean you get to come on here
in whatever way you want to
sure right and if i don't like it
that's something i have to deal with
it's not your responsibility
yeah i agree with i feel like if if if
for whatever if if me wearing a gecko
suit i didn't i don't i don't think i
really genuinely thought i would i was
gonna piss you off but even but like
that's the thing is if i did if me
wearing a gecko suit really did piss you
off that i'd that would that i agree
that would be a you problem yeah
all the more power to you dude i'm
thrilled the only real concern i have
about the gecko suit is i'm curious
about whether the makeup is you know
safe to wear on a prolonged basis and
whether you've dr k i went to a
dermatologist i went to a dermatologist
dr well done
and i and i i went to a dermatologist
and i told them that i wear
green paint
and they didn't ask why but i told them
i wear green paint for 20 hours a week
and they were and i said uh
is am i and i asked them like am i gonna
die
and they said uh
you'll probably be fine
perfect
great i'll probably be fine dr k
i'm so glad that you sought real medical
advice for that that's honestly the only
concern that i have about the gecko suit
otherwise it's like you know people have
dye their hair people
wear makeup people
or you know where whatever
and it's like you do you bro
thank you doug i appreciate that
and
you know kind of going back you were
saying like your divorce isn't really
your problem i'm sold i'm not worried
about it it's just sometimes for some
people it is you know i think like you
said you kind of said they just weren't
compatible and they're like it's like
not that big of a deal totally fine man
and then i got kind of curious about you
said like oh it's like the root of my
problems but then i'm curious like what
what do you mean when you say problems
like what are your problems your
problems
do i have problems
i think
i think well i think everyone has
problems one of my problems
um
i don't know right now i'm have i'm
enjoy i'm having a good time
okay i don't think i'm trying the last
time
i i feel like i really had a problem
i don't know i i my life's pretty good
right now i'm like i i'm i'm pretty
grateful for where i'm at right now i
mean everyone like you know complains
about [ __ ]
but like if i were to actually like you
know take it like in the moment that i
just did where i had to think like what
like what are my
problems to talk to dr k about
i'm like i i'm
i'm pretty pretty grateful for
my life right now i think in a large
scale i
don't think i have any
any glaring problems
i i think you know i'm okay not fishing
or digging for them
if you're okay not
with if you're okay with me not doing
that
like did you come on here with the hopes
that i would uncover or unearth some
problem because if so we can go down
that route i could try harder but
there's a ton of stuff that i'm curious
about and i think that we can talk about
that could be like useful i would love
to talk about the stuff that you are
curious about yeah so dude tell me about
stand up bro like that's washed
uh
that was fun i um
i started when i was 16 years old like
because i really here because the thing
was the reason i started when i was 16
is because i i mean i wanted to do it
since i was 13 but i really did not want
my mom or dad to like watch me
so i waited until i got my driver's
license so i could go alone
um and so i did that and then i started
like uh it was it was it was fun i would
like uh
you know i was 16 and it was like there
would be like a school night and i my
mom was [ __ ] really cool and she
would let me like drive down
into the city to
hang out at like a punks club until 1am
waiting to go on at the
open mic and then i'd come back and wake
up at
6 and go into high school and i'm like
you [ __ ] do your intramural soccer
and your
frisbee but i'm doing the cool thing
here you know
um
but yeah that was it was fun um
i was gonna stop doing it
um
because uh
i don't know i just got i i i like i
like streaming more than stand up
because stand-up you'd kind of do alone
um
like when you like when you have to
write it like you sit in a [ __ ] dark
room and you have to like bang
everything out but what i like about
streaming is like if you have a if you
have something that you want to express
like a feeling or a thought or something
you just you literally just say it
and it and it and the purest form of
what you just said is what makes it
to
the person that is ingesting it as
opposed to like you know a a
tweet or something where you yeah right
right write your thought go ah that's
not the perfect way to say it delete it
right that's not the perfect way to say
it delete it you know
while you strike me as someone for whom
like authenticity is like very important
absolutely yeah you know like like what
i'm hearing is that there's a certain
amount of
sterilization that goes into tweeting
and and you know crafting jokes and
changing editing words and
things like that i mean i think one way
to look at it is craftsmanship i think
another way to look at it is
sterilization right like it's like it's
it's crafted
it's it's you know processed it's not
all natural
absolutely and on stream
and i'm also kind of noticing like even
when it comes to you know being a gecko
it seems like the gecko isn't
is really just
you know something that you kind of put
on but you're not really becoming a
different person
no not really um
i mean i like i like being the gecko i
think it's um
i will say i think it's easier
i don't i wouldn't even say this but
like i i like being slightly removed
from myself even though i'm not like you
know i go by a lot like when i'm gekko i
go by
lyle or geck or whatever but it is it is
it's it's fun to be in and to speak as
like an entity
as as opposed to like yourself
fun to speak as an entity
uh
i don't know
like being uh
i'm trying to think of how to go deeper
into that but like
it's
i like i like speaking
as a i mean i stream as myself too like
i mean i i guess i am always streaming
with myself but
uh i stream not wearing the gecko
costume um
i don't know it's like i i like
okay so the biggest the thing on like uh
the reason why i think that like my
stream has worked for me is like
if i if i got up on twitch and i was
like
my name is lyle drescher and this is the
lyle drescher show call in and ask me
lyle for advice or something people be
like who is i don't know who this guy is
what the who cares you know squirrel or
whatever but like presenting myself as
this like it's it's like a it's like a
being
that i feel like can be more easily
identified with than like just some
other random [ __ ] guy you know and i
and i like that you know i think that
that is more more interesting
i'm going to use a weird word here
please um but i almost almost getting
the sense that you're channeling the
therapy gecko
i totally channel the therapy gecko 100
percent
you know it doesn't sound like an act it
sounds like you become a conduit
yeah medium
yes yes i definitely
feel like i channel
a therapy and if i and i will say if i'm
trying hard to channel therapy gecko
i don't i don't want to say it's
different from myself because i believe
that like
ev every part of
like like i don't know
if if people are so complex like i feel
like every
i wouldn't say that me my channeling of
the gecko is like a different for me i
would say it is a part of me so i don't
want to say it's playing a character but
it is like
different than how i would be if i were
just like
you know having a conversation with
someone
you know off stream or something
lyle i have a concern that this
conversation may completely go off the
rails
let's do it so like here's the thing so
i i don't know i mean if there ain't no
problems to talk about totally fine
right so i think one of the biases that
people have is they assume that
people come on to the stream
explicitly to talk about problems and
that's what we're interested in but i
think what the story is really about is
understanding people
oh yeah and so in a weird way
what i kind of want to talk to you about
what i think is interesting to hear
about
um is creative process
success
and actually like flow
like are you familiar with
i love i love the i always say i always
say like uh you know i don't try to give
advice too often but like i do feel like
um
i genuinely feel like uh you know people
are always like trying to like how can i
be happy but i feel like flow is better
than happiness well help me understand
why flow is better than happiness
i i don't know because fl because
happiness just feels like
passive in a way like flow is like
all-encompassing and it's it's
it's very
i don't know i like it like i like i
feel like i'm in flow right now talking
to you i feel like i'm in that's why i
like streaming is because i feel like
when and it doesn't always happen you
know streaming can you know it's it's
not great a hundred percent of the time
but like when it is it's like i'm i'm in
flow state i'm fully engrossed in the
conversation that i'm having and that's
that's when i feel the best is is when
i'm in a flow state i'd like to be in a
flow state as much as i possibly can
i'm almost hearing you kind of say that
happiness is sort of like you kind of
said it's passive and being in a flow
state is like alive
it's like violent and experienced it's
not like
a calculation about like oh am i like
happy like yeah i'm happy like you can
you say that kind of in the abstract
right
like if someone else was like
it's like you know like
like like yeah like you could sit around
like like if you're sitting in a chair
in your big house and you have a bunch
of
money and you have a loving family and
you like are piecing look you're
thinking about your life and you're like
oh i'm happy you know i got good stuff
going on i'm really grateful for my life
like that's good but i like
but like when you're when you're in a
flow state it's it's you're not you're
not even [ __ ] thinking you're just
doing you're being you're in the you're
fully in the present and i think that's
when people are most happy is when
because when they're when they're in the
present not when they're like
thinking about their life from this
ethereal
[Music]
you know sort of step ladder position or
whatever
yeah so it sounds like you know
sometimes when you ask the question are
you happy what people do is they
make an abstract or intellectual
judgment
about whether the person in their
situation
should be happy
sure and then they will say
yes
i have the big house in the big chair
yes and and interesting that you use the
word chair there
you know the big chair
but i like i like i like the way that
you phrase that like i like the way you
phrase that like
thinking should a person who has what i
have be happy
as opposed to am i happy
i like i like the way you phrase that
yeah so i think unfortunately a lot of
people that i work in work with will you
know come into my office and say i have
all of the things that people
who should be happy have
and i'm not happy
which is a really interesting
exploration because
if those things don't necessarily lead
to happiness and you decouple having
those things from happiness what it also
implies is that if you have nothing you
can actually be happy
right exactly exactly
so let's try to understand
where
you're i'm trying to think about the
word
how did you get to be in a situation
where you are grateful and engage in the
flow state how did that happen for you
where i was grateful or when i was
engaged in the in the following how did
you get to where you are
um
how did i get to where i am well
so i've noticed that sometimes when i
ask you a question maybe it's like kind
of too broad
do you think it do you think it would be
good if i ask a broad question and kind
of give you some time to think through
it or would it be more helpful if i
just kind of teed you up a little bit
more
let's try let's try what you took me up
a little bit more looks like so here's
what i'm envisioning
there's lyle dresher
yes six-year-old kid growing up in a
jewish neighborhood presumably jewish
going to a hebrew school
incompatible parents parents get
divorced you're not really in the flow
state then parents remarry and stuff
there's no real trauma or anything like
that you know nothing juicy
for like a psychologist or therapist or
anything like that and then you're like
i'm i'm in fifth grade
i'm gonna make cool stuff on the
internet and so you started making cool
stuff on the internet you got like six
views
and then i don't know if if you were
happy then or not and then you're like
i'm gonna go to stand up at the age of
16 which if you want to talk about
having a pair of balls of being brave
like you know going to punk clubs at the
age of 16 and doing stand-up and unclear
whether people are laughing or not
laughing like
you know you kind of say you guys go do
your intramural stuff but i'm gonna go
do the cool thing whereas the other way
to look at it is like you guys
participate in society and i'm going to
be over here being an outcast
you know because i i i something tells
me that when you were 16 years old you
were not the cool kid even though you
described doing the cool
things i felt as though
i didn't feel like i was like actively
uncool but i did feel like uh
i had carved you know my friends and i
had carved our own
sort of like if you think of a a
traditional
you know
buy it cool kids and not cool like that
spectra i felt like as though we carved
our own
sort of lateral sort of thing later yes
we were lateral
yeah and so were you
happy then
and then i'm not quite sure how old you
are it sounds like you're maybe like 23
or something
yeah i'm exactly 23. so
um
you know and then about a year and a
half ago unclear whether you went to
college or you know what happened or
whether you were supporting yourself and
you kind of start doing this side thing
a couple years ago
on instagram on reddit public access
network
on tick tock and twitch and now when we
hear you talk about stuff it's sort of
like
i'm grateful for what i have and i enjoy
feeling alive
yes
and so how where did when did you start
to feel that way how did you get there
man
that's what teeing up looks like by the
way okay
ah okay yes you asked this yes there we
go okay you asked the same question but
you tweeted me out for it perfect
uh
i don't know if there is i don't i don't
know if there is a there
right like is is is isn't that a thing
like is there a there you know of course
there's not like uh
there
but like um
i've had uh
but it's like it's it's you know it's
it's interest i feel like it's the same
the feeling that i have i had it when i
was 16 when i was in the rock club about
to get on stage at one o'clock in the
morning when i had school tomorrow where
i think to myself i'm like this is cool
you know and then there's a feeling that
i have when i'm like
you know an internet gecko guy and you
know i'm twitch streaming for a living
where i'm like this is cool you know
um
but i don't know if it's uh if it's a
there or anything like that
um
you know
yeah so i i think lyle i think you're
doing it right because the more that you
talk the less sense you make and the
more you sound like a zen master
so you know is there there is a very
master kind of statement
right because if you look at zen
buddhism they'll say like weird things
like that there is no there there is
only here and it's like does that even
mean yeah yeah
but so help us understand what do you
mean by like is there really a there
there is no there
what does that mean man
doesn't make any [ __ ] sense
i don't know is there like like there is
never a time in which like
you know you are completely
you you you have unlocked i mean i don't
even know what the [ __ ] that would look
i think that i genuinely think that
looks like death like if you
like you've unlocked everything you are
supremely happy you're in post game new
game plus whatever
you know
uh uh
i don't know i don't know if what that
even looks like i think that there's
just like people i think
the way to combat that is just to really
love the process and the the the the
journey toward
the thing you know
yeah but what if the journey sucks
like what happened so do you have any
memories of of going to the rock club
when you were 16
like specific memories yeah like can you
tell us like paint us a picture of like
you know
like what you remember like if you have
kind of memory yeah i mean yeah i would
like show up and park my car in
somewhere where i was just hoping i
wasn't gonna get a ticket and then i
would come into the
thing and i was younger than everyone
else so i like i mean everyone else was
like you know
late 20s like like mid to late 20s or or
sometimes early 20s
which i guess looked like mid to late
what i look at now if that makes sense
yeah um
and so like i was afraid i didn't i just
kind of didn't talk to anyone
you know and i was real and a few like
people would come up and talk to me i
was really grateful
for those people because i was too you i
wasn't gonna like
make the first like hey what's up man
kind of thing
you know um
so i really remembered everyone who came
up and like would talk to me uh
but i i was being i was like nervous i
just wouldn't like talk to anyone i just
really wanted to like wait
sit watch comedians they don't like to
watch each other like stand in the back
but i but i didn't know anyway i didn't
have anyone to stand in the back with so
i would just sit and watch
and um
uh
and just kind of wait my turn i remember
actually no this was the very second
time it was when i went to the rock club
the very second time i did stand up i
remember being
no i remember being in the i went to the
bathroom it was like a punk bathroom and
all these stickers and i was like really
nervous i was nervous to be there like
to walk into the room like while i was
16 like from all these people who were
you know older than me and i remember i
had just read this book
by this guy named chris gethard and in
the book he talks about uh
how he like well he he likes going out
of his way
to um
put himself in situations
that are uncomfortable just for the
just i i don't know i remember reading
that when i was 16 and that spoke to me
so i was in the bathroom thinking about
that and being like all right i'm going
to embrace that and i've actually that
sort of started a
a a thing of like embracing
being in uncomfortable
situations
um
so i remember i was in the bathroom and
i was like okay i'm not gonna leave i'm
gonna stay and i'm gonna do my set it's
gonna be uncomfortable but i think it's
cool that i'm really uncomfortable
right now you know i could like i said i
could i could have played soccer
and what was it like when you did your
set
it was the second so that was the second
time i did stand up the first time i did
really well and then this is what
happens is you do really well and then
you second time you do the same like
jokes or whatever and they don't do as
well
and uh
but it didn't jar me that much
one of the cool things about like going
to open mics and stuff is like everyone
thinks that stand up is so like
life like life or death like i can't
feel like oh my god i can't fathom the
idea of like being up in front of people
and like trying to be funny and not
working but then you go and you do it
and you're like oh it's not it's it's
part of the thing it's not that bad and
you see other people fail and and you
know
it wasn't that bad it was kind of it was
fun um you know i had a couple things go
over well and i talked to a few people
and uh
i came home i felt cool and uh
and yeah even though the second set
didn't
go well helped me yeah i know i still i
still felt cool i felt cool for having
done it you know i i wouldn't say it
didn't go well i said i i think um
it went okay
you know um
i i wouldn't say like like i like i
would rate it you know a six out of ten
maybe
um
but i liked uh i liked i liked the scene
i liked
going there and i liked being
somewhere weird at a weird time
as a 16 year old you know i liked that
so i really care
how the set went if i got to
you know do that
so it felt
cool
to once again i'm kind of getting the
sense of like carving out
right like you're gonna follow
right
yeah
yeah you just did a help me understand
that what what happened what is that
what does car what does carving out mean
i you're the one who used the words
i am
yeah so you were
carving out and forget that i said that
don't worry about it oh oh like oh oh oh
yes carving the pa oh yes yeah okay yeah
so but but something about when i used
the words just now to describe your
comedy experience it seemed like it hit
a nerve
right like oh because i because i didn't
realize what you were uh oh okay okay
but now i do oh yes
yes yes and that's um
you know that's i think that's kind of
been a big part of uh
my
like a
in a way approach to life you know
as i've always wanted to
you know try to carve out my own
thing you know
and uh that's that's been a big goal of
mine
for a while and and that's why i'm
really grateful i get to do this weird
gecko talk show thing because it it
feels like i'm able to carve out my own
uh
you know sort of path in life oh
absolutely i think i think you literally
wear carving out your life on your
sleeve
right that's awesome
like i mean literally like you you
put on a [ __ ] costume
yes to show people that you're not going
to play intramural whatever
right
you're not going to look you're not
going to look human
yes yes you're goddamn right dr k
and uh
because i'm noticing like that's
absolutely a theme right like it's sort
of like what i'm what i'm hearing is
that within you
there's a voice that has said don't do
as others do do this other thing like
and not so much that there's anything
wrong with what other people do but
really like listen to what that internal
voice is because i don't know many
people who at the age of 16 were going
to comedy clubs and doing stand up
i know a lot of 16 year olds who had
dreams of doing stand up
i know a lot of 16 year olds who wanted
to be stand-up comedians and have like a
netflix special or hbo special or things
like that i know a lot of 16 year olds
who thought they were very funny
and could do stand-up
i certainly knew a lot of 16 year olds
who thought they were as funny as the
people who are actually doing stand up
but i didn't know many people who
actually did stand up
well now if you're a 16 year old and you
think you're funny you don't even you
don't even have to go to the rock club
downtown you just whip out your phone
and make a tick-tock
and granted i was sort of doing that
same sort of thing but uh you know
so there's another thing that i kind of
want to just touch on for a second which
is just really really sharing an opinion
um i don't know that i have a whole lot
of questions for you but you know feel
free to
respond but like
so i think a lot of times when people
look at success
what they really look at is
like people will say like oh the guy put
on a gecko costume and like blew up on
tick tock and that's why he's successful
right there they'll say sort of say
things like put right place right time
kind of like the stars aligned and and
like
you know
that's how you became successful but i
think for most people that i've worked
with who are very successful what i
almost always find is a story actually a
lot like yours
whereas like you know the therapy gecko
is not
the first step in a journey like you
started making content on the internet
at the age of what sounds like 10 or 11.
yeah and so you've been thinking about
it working on it you literally went to
stand-up comedy clubs at the age of 16
and you've been practicing creating
content and being funny in the somewhat
intentional way ever since your brain
was like very very young and like
literally wiring
and then it's not surprising at all but
what i tend to find i'll see this also
in like you know some of the startup
founders that i work with that like
very few of them are successful with
their first company like what happens is
they're like in when they were eight
they started a lemonade stand
and then when they were 14 they like
started this hustle at school where they
were like selling candy bars
like one guy that i worked with like
they you know the school stopped
using having a coke machine or something
so they were like selling cokes like
behind the cafeteria and [ __ ] like that
and then like you know they went on to
be like
yeah black market cokes
um
and and so i think i just wanted to kind
of comment because i think a lot of
people in our community are sort of
trying to figure out like how do i be
successful
or they'll sort of try to you know ask
themselves hey i'm like trying to work
on this stuff but it doesn't seem to be
working and i don't know what to do next
and i think it's just important to
highlight that like
you know you've been working at this for
probably over a decade in some way shape
or form
and so the therapy gecko that people see
is not just a random guy putting on like
a gecko costume
it's like actually like you know when
you speak and you wind up being
relatively funny that there's like
you know a lot of like internal
psychological work that you've done
sitting in a bathroom and sort of like
you know
dealing with your nervousness and then
getting up there and trying to be funny
being okay with a six out of ten and
then showing up the next week and doing
it again and like practicing and working
on your your craft
um
it was just something that i i noticed
hearing your story and just wanted to
kind of point it out
what do you think oh yeah i know i i
appreciate that um it's funny i i've uh
i've like sort of thought about that um
you know
i
uh
the the therapy gecko is very new but i
i i like
this is sort of a random thing i was
like thinking about in my head i was
like you know
trying to give myself credit because i
was like you know the therapy echo is
very new but like the i
a lot of the
sort of roots of it are are it are not
you know like i've been trying to you
know as i said sort of carve out my own
path you know for a very long time and
uh
you know
trying to do
silly things on the computer for a very
long time so
like even though like
streaming and being a lizard
are kind of new i think the stuff behind
it
is is kind of not
yeah
so
interesting so okay um and
what do you think it is that helps you
get into that flow state
you need me to see you on that
sure i'm
i'd love to hear the tea up
i don't have one
okay all right well if i don't know that
that i think i could uh that question i
think you could answer um
um because i love this thing the tea up
uh well okay so i mean a lot of the
stuff that i was doing before like i was
doing this was like
trying to like
write
jokes or write uh
sketch and like that that's like right
like sitting down and writing
getting into the flow state is so hard
like i respect the [ __ ] out of people
who can like sit and write essays or
write
the sonnet whatever the hell you're
writing like uh
you know i respect the [ __ ] out of
people who can do that because it's this
there's infinite like this is like i'm
in the flow state with you right now i
really feel like you know we're having a
conversation i can't
stop our conversation to like go look at
youtube
or like go eat a snack
or you know go do this or like like
there's no
i like i'm i'm in this i'm talking to
you we're doing this right now we're
live
there's no room for
me to get distracted or anything whereas
like if you're trying to like write
something or edit a video or
make a song or something like that you
know there's no
thing that's like i don't know if i'm
gonna use the phrase holding accountable
because i don't really feel like i'm
being like held accountable but like
you know
it's it's much so so when i stream and
like you know i talk to people you know
it's easy for me to get into the flow
state because like a conversation is
developing naturally
and it's just it just is a
much more natural thing to do than like
you know sit down and put pen to
paper so you know i'd i'd been
sorry so that's why i like it i like it
a lot as a
as a as a medium of of doing things on
the internets
and creating in a sense
i'm with you so lyle now i'm gonna ask
you a question which yeah i'm gonna try
to answer after i ask you but i'm gonna
ask you okay what what would you say are
the features of the flow state what
makes the flow state different from the
non-flow state
um you're doing more than you're
thinking about what you're doing and
you're not
so critical critical of yourself and
analyzing yourself
you know like if i'm really in the flow
state i'm not
like like if we're like when we're like
like you know at the highest points of
like flow i would say like in our
conversation i'm not thinking about like
oh how's chat reacting to this or like
how is this coming off or anything i'm
just talking you know and that's how i
feel like when i do my own stream is
like you know i'm not i'm really not
thinking about anything else except for
you know the person i'm talking to but i
guess to answer the question more like
the the traits of the flow state so i
guess i'll maybe a lack of
a loss of ego i don't know i'm not gonna
start pretending like i know anything
about
spiritual stuff but uh oh you know a lot
about spiritual stuff while
uh
what does that mean
see this is why i didn't want to say
because then you were going to ask me
what it means and i was i i don't know
if i can explain it as well i guess like
uh well i guess like what it means to me
is like you know
like i said like if if i'm not thinking
about how i'm coming off i have the free
like like that's a crutch like thinking
about what other people think about you
is like a [ __ ]
crutch and it'll prevent you from
speaking
freely because you're like oh no that
sounded stupid that says you're just
you're speaking freely
um
and
so i think that that
freedom from
self criticism as you're speaking or or
as you're writing or painting or doing
you know whatever you'd be doing is is
an integral part of the the flow state
sounded like a pretty good answer to me
about what loss of ego is
right so what i'm hearing is that there
are times where you think about yourself
as it relates to an activity
if i'm writing am i a good writer is
this good writing and then there are
times where you are removed from the
equation and there is just
yeah so it's kind of interesting because
even if we go back to the beginning of
the interview
there were times where your ego was
present
like oh is dr k gonna be pissed if i
show up
see then you're thinking about how other
people will respond to you and now you
don't care what i think
you're not even thinking about what i
think
they're just having the conversation and
so what we've actually done is somehow
we've managed to remove ego from the
equation
right and as we remove as you're no
longer concerned about oh am i supposed
to be talking about problem am i
supposed to be doing this so i think
supposed to is another good word that
sort of shatters the flow state
um
but i i think you you know this stuff
and and that's why i don't feel like i
have to tee you up for it and i think
the only thing is you don't know that
you know it or you have you have you
don't have faith that you can explain it
but it's pretty clear to me and what i'm
going to do at the end
and maybe the end is you know whenever
we can do it now if you want to it
doesn't have to be the end but what i'm
going to do is actually go through a
list of statements that you've made
and kind of tie them together to like
old spiritual texts on meditation
spiritual growth and enlightenment
because you do say a lot of remarkable
stuff that like overlaps with what those
folks say
that's uh
you know what's funny is like i when
you're i'm always like
had this uh thing of like you know
waiting like
oh god you know no no no say the thing
first and then i'll and i'll say go for
it now i'm curious i guess like uh like
if i had like if i had a thought like
like if you have a thought you're almost
like waiting for it to get like like
you're sort of waiting for it to get
validated for other people to like be
something that makes sense
and like i think everyone has that i've
been active
and like and like i definitely have that
i've tried to fight against that so you
saying that like i've said something
that oh another guy said that wrote a
book that was saying that thing i'm like
oh okay so i was onto something there
when i thought that thing that wasn't
just a crazy thing that i thought
no yeah no i think you're on to a lot so
this is what i think is really i guess
we can do it now um because
so the first thing that i want to kind
of share is that like when you look at
old texts on spirituality
um sometimes people will sort of talk
about philosophy or like argument or
logic and say like this is not like like
you know you can't
what is ego death and they'll like try
to understand it on an intellectual or
logical level so like what does it mean
to lose your ego you know the loss of
ego but the really interesting thing
about these at least the spiritual
traditions that that i tend to place a
lot of emphasis in that i've studied
that i propagate in some sense
um are sort of like the hindu and
buddhist traditions and and what i
actually really like about them is that
i think they're
they have a very scientific attitude so
they don't say that this is logically
correct and they don't say that you
should believe this they say that if you
go and explore
and try to figure out how this stuff
works when we tried to figure out how
this stuff works here are the
conclusions we came to and we suspect
because then we had a bunch of other
people go and investigate it on their
own and this is consistently what people
come up with and so what i really love
about this is like literally today lyle
you've made statement after statement
after statement that i have read in
texts that are 600 years old a thousand
years old 2 000 years old or 4 000 years
old and i pointed out one which is like
i asked you how do you get there and
your [ __ ] answer is like it's like
classic zen there is no there
right and no one knows what the hell
that means but like you understand it
it like doesn't translate into like
logical words we can try to do a
slightly better job there because there
is a there's you know
practice that can be done in explaining
some of these weird concepts
but they're sort of like anyway so let's
kind of start from the top so the first
thing that i actually want to point out
is so i think how you got to where you
are okay
so
we've already talked a little bit about
success
and how like i actually think that i'm
not surprised that you blew up because i
think you've actually dedicated yourself
to like a craft for some time
and if you think about you know your
cognitive development and the way that
your neurons have wired like you are
somewhat of a professional when it comes
to whatever whatever it is that we see
like this is not just a random
happenstance right you've been creating
content since you were 10 you did stand
up comedy like i was stunned to hear
both of those things but now it's sort
of making sense for me
and then you you also have like you know
you've experimented with different kind
of platforms and stuff like that and
found a nice combination of what sounds
like live streaming on twitch which
brings out the flow state so you're also
doing a couple of really cool things
that i'll try to help creative people do
what are the circumstances that
naturally blink bring out the flow state
because when you bring out the flow
state you're going to create the best
content
and then you're sort of pairing up
twitch to get that live interaction to
set yourself up to bring out the flow
state and then you kind of clip that
[ __ ] for tick tock because you can't sit
down and make a tick tock yes some
people can sit down and script the tick
tock but you cannot
you've got a farm tick tock moments on
twitch
yes i this is i this is like i've been
waiting my almost like i've been waiting
forever to figure this out and it's
something i try to like
tell people who are having like trouble
creating things is like i
like exactly what i can't sit down and
like write a tick tock but like what
the the way in which i edit
like
the twitch and streaming allows me to
just get the [ __ ] raw thoughts
through of whatever it is i'm thinking
or or feeling and then when i go in to
edit it i actually i have like it's it's
there and i just chop it away and like
find it you know and that's like
such
a better creative process
than
sitting and writing you know so can i
discover that until recently yeah so can
i share a couple of thoughts on that so
i've worked with a lot of people who
sort of experience things that way so i
think part of the problem with when we
think about how to become successful
is that we're given a script right so
there are some people who have become
very very successful
and then we'll look at them and we'll
say like you know you can look at
successful authors like you know let's
say like someone like brandon sanderson
who will say like you know sit down and
like write every day what you've got to
do is like write every day and then if
you read other people like stephen king
apparently like early on you know he
would use a lot of drugs and and just
write very
like a ton of stuff so different people
have different creative processes so a
couple of things that i want to kind of
highlight about yours because i think a
lot of people can become successful
without forcing themselves into
a cognitive temperament that does not
suit them so a lot of the work that i i
do is about helping people understand
okay what what's your cognitive
temperament and how can we set your
brain up for success so some people are
the methodical route like i'm gonna sit
down and i'm gonna write every day for
six hours and you gotta just sit down
and just like do it and then some people
i think this is really important so
a big part of the flow state like we
said is separating the ego from the
action
and with some authors that i've worked
with what they struggle with is there's
the author and then there's the editor
there's like you know the person there's
the creative and then there's the judge
and if both of those are coexisting in
your mind if you sit down and you try to
write
and the editor is there criticizing the
sentence that comes out you will be
paralyzed in front of the page you will
never get a single sentence out you have
to let yourself write crap you have to
separate out almost like left brain
right brain it's not really
neuroscientifically based but it's a
concept that people understand you know
you have to set out to separate out the
creative part of you from the judging or
editing part of you and what i hear you
kind of say is like in the editing
process what you do is you vomit out
golden trash on twitch
and then you can let the editor step in
and sort of sift things apart but if you
try to filter or create gold to begin
with you will never succeed
yeah of course of course yeah that's
that's why
dude that's that's almost like probably
a big
kind of i was doing that for a while
like when i was like you know doing
stand-up and making videos and stuff
like i was able to like get stuff out
but um [ __ ] i hate i hated that process
of like sitting down to i never got into
the flow state
of it you know and it's it's it's it's
tough that's probably a big reason why i
like
you know i like to do twitch stuff
instead of that
yeah so let's talk a little bit about
the flow state so i think there are a
couple of very important
psychological things that you have done
which have really set you up for success
and these are things that i want to
highlight
so you remember how your memory sucks
you don't remember anything
yes
do you i'm gonna ask you kind of a weird
question
so there's been really only one time
during our conversation where you have
given us an incredibly vivid and lively
picture of a past memory from your life
do you remember what
you you remember what it was yeah it was
the i was being at the rock club
absolutely right so this is like how
memory works because i think that was a
transformative moment for you
because what you did in the bathroom was
embrace discomfort
right that's that's those are the words
that you used so this is like when the
yogis are saying acceptance
like that is literally what acceptance
looks like it's a 16 year old
remembering a book they read sitting
there with butterflies in their stomach
feeling out of place in a [ __ ]
bathroom about to vomit and saying you
know what let's go yeah let's go [ __ ]
because you can retreat in that moment
or you can embrace that discomfort and
so the yogis say that like you shouldn't
try to push away negative emotions you
need to accept your negative emotions
right right that's what literally what
acceptance looks like and once you begin
to accept that and embrace that there's
a there's a very common problem here is
that if people think oh if i accept my
negativity doesn't that do me like if i
accept that i feel ashamed about myself
does that mean that i'm like never gonna
be confident right because if i accept
my shame does that mean that like i'm
not gonna be confident but something
funny happens it's kind of like
paradoxical that when you accept the
negative things when you embrace that
discomfort what happens when you go on
stage
you you don't feel
as
uncomfortable it's bizarre right yeah so
somehow by embracing and so you've
stumbled upon you know a ton of these
like i'm telling like 2 000 year old
like
like you know wise things so that like
embracing that discomfort and really
saying hey this is where i am like this
is i want to carve this out this is what
i want to do i don't want to play
intramural soccer i want to be here and
it's okay to be uncomfortable because
this aligns with like the life that i
want to live and when you embrace i
think that was a really transformative
moment for you and i think it's like
that acceptance which has been and
there's a reason why your brain
remembers it right so
the reason that you have a vivid memory
reason you don't remember anything about
your divorce is because it doesn't mean
anything to you it's like there's
nothing there yes right yeah yeah so
like what you do remember the important
transformative moments of your life and
like i think that was a big one where
you learned how to accept
like negativity and so if we talk a
little bit about getting into the flow
state i think you know embracing the
negative is a big part
of the flow state because in the flow
state you've used the phrase natural so
how do you get into the flow state as
long as you have internal conflict and
we can kind of hear this in a lot of
what you've said the first is if you're
editing the thoughts in your head right
no flow state that's internal conflict
if you have negative feelings that
you're trying to suppress or push away
internal conflict you're not going to
get a flow state
so a big part of the flow state is to be
as you put it natural what does that
mean to be natural i would argue that
feeling natural is not having an
internal conflict so if i'm laying out
on the beach and not thinking about
anything and i feel completely unnatural
and i'm alive and in the moment there's
no conflict
if i'm sitting there in my head thinking
about oh my god i'm here on the beach
and i have so many bills to pay it's
going to create internal conflict and
i'm not even going to enjoy being on the
beach
yeah okay
so i think it's really like that that
moment that you had there was like a
real like you know
turning point in a in a movie about
success
kind of thing it's like when people play
the triumphant music and
and then you go out on stage
and then i think there's another really
interesting thing there which is if you
talk about the way that you respond to
[Music]
to
how people responded to you so the first
set you did you had sounds like not
really a whole lot expectation so you
were pleasantly surprised or maybe you
thought you'd suck you just went up
there and people like you you kind of
even remember like it's so interesting
that you remember what your first set
was like what the reception was like
what the second set was like what the
reception was like first one went really
well and then second one
it's really interesting because if you
pay attention it's beautiful the way
that your cognition works because you
say
it didn't go as well or you said
something like it went bad and then you
actually rewind it a little bit and you
were like actually it was about the same
it didn't go that much worse it was like
a six out of ten so if we look at those
two statements what happens is probably
when you went up there the second time
you had an expectation hey i'm fine
it's gonna go great and it did not go
that great and then you felt emotionally
like oh my god this is going so much
worse and now when you think about that
memory in the past the first answer that
comes out is that emotional oh crap
people aren't laughing as much but then
as you start to think about it a little
bit more calmly a little bit more
intellectually actually it wasn't that
big of a difference
you know it's just that comparison that
you made to the first time
and i think it's not surprising because
if you want to get into the flow state
you can't compare
you can't think about how the last
stream went you can't expect anything
you can't be like oh my god do i have
problems like oh my god i don't have
problems now what am i going to do if
i'm talking to dr k if that is the
thought in your head this conversation
will never happen
yep you gotta go with the flow
right
so i think that that this too like in
that in that moment i think it was a
really good like instance
of when you have an experience if you
create an expectation about the next
experience it will actually make it very
hard for you to enter this flow state or
impossible actually because the flow
state is a one-pointedness of the mind
and if you are trying to fulfill an
expectation
your mind is not fully in the task
because a small amount of your ram is
being spent comparing to like the last
time am i there yet am i there yet am i
there yet
and this is kind of really interesting
because when i teach people meditation
their first like spiritual trippy
psychedelic experience is actually easy
to get so when i teach people certain
kinds of meditation they'll have these
like weird spiritual experiences where
they'll be like oh my god it was bizarre
i felt connected to the universe i
realized whatever or they like have
memories from their past life for like
weird stuff starts to happen
and then the first one is like super
easy because they have no idea it's
coming so they can enter the flow state
in meditation they can attain one
pointedness of the mind and then like
something weird happens in their
consciousness
the second time is the hardest
because once it happens the first time
you sit down to meditate and you're like
can't wait let's go let's feel connected
to the universe and then like it doesn't
happen why am i not feeling connected oh
my god oh my god it's not working it's
not working it's not working so you
create that kind of expectation and then
it kind of like shatters the flow state
and then kind of the third thing that i
wanted to say is we talked about loss of
ego
one-pointedness not being critical right
so as long as you're being critical of
yourself it's going to create that
tension shatter the flow state and the
last thing that i kind of want to say
about the flow today is like the words
that you use to describe it so we talked
about channeling right like you're
channeling the therapy gecko and on days
that you try to be the therapy gecko i
would suspect it's harder to be the
therapy gecko
hmm
actually it's this sort of weird thing
where like uh it's funny you say that
because uh
sometimes uh uh i i do have like uh like
like i like to
channel
the therapy girl and sometimes i feel
like if i'm not making
a uh intentional decision
to to act in a certain way
it doesn't happen and then i and then i
look back and i'm like
oh i was i didn't i didn't like
i didn't do that stream in the way that
i i wanted to i was too like this way
maybe like i laughed too much when like
you know i i would have rather been you
know
sort of more more stoic or something
like that so while there's a huge
difference i completely agree with you
yeah there's a huge difference between
intention and expectation
sure
right so i think that when we talk about
the flow state there must absolutely be
complete intention one pointed intention
all of your intention is to be something
and this is where things like even my
language is gonna start to fall apart
but like
intention and expectation are two
different things because intention is
about what you're putting into it
expectation is about what you hope to
get out of it yes yeah yeah right so i
think there i think when you try too
hard to be the therapy gecko you will
not actually be the therapy gecko what i
would say is when you let yourself
become the therapy gecko
you will be the best therapy gecko
you have to let it take you for a ride
you can't you know turn on the engine
and just go and tell it where to go you
got to let it take you
what do you think about that
i'll i like that i think that makes a
lot of sense
letting
that's what this that is that's fun that
is like meditation where like if you sit
down and you're like i'm going to
become the
one with the worlds or whatever it
doesn't work but if you sort of let it
happen
i'm trying to i'm trying to like i'm
thinking about like like last night's
stream like because i i felt like i i
was very much in the flow state and
acting presenting myself in the way that
um
you know i wanted to you know um
and yeah i i would say that's pretty
accurate
so i i and i think even if you go back
to the early part of our stream today
and you talk about you know what what
it's like when i use the word channel
and you started using these words like
your being and alive you know like maybe
that was my word but
the way you were kind of describing it
is like
you know there's
sometimes the you know some of the yogis
and zen masters and stuff will describe
it as a flowering
so the reason i i think they use the
word flowering is because you can't like
make a flower bloom
you know like you can't like if there's
a bud like you can't peel it apart and
like turn it into a flower it's
something that you have to let happen
right so it's not something you can do
but it's something you have to let
happen and this is this is a concept
that i think is very very like lost in
our society today because we're all
about like metrics and performance and
like living up to expectations and
having job descriptions and like you
know you know what's your kpi like how
many views are you getting how many subs
are you getting we're all like outcome
oriented so we don't we've forgotten
sort of as a society how to let things
bloom
right how to set everything up how to
you know start making content on the
internet at 10 but you didn't care about
your views and i mean maybe you did but
you're focused on making content then
doing stand up and then like is all of
these factors kind of go together as you
water the plant is you give it sunlight
is you give it the right kind of soil
and fertilizer eventually something
grows and it takes a decade and then you
see a flowering it's a happening
and so what i i'd kind of say is that
when you talk about the flow state this
is sort of the last concept that i'll
share is there's this idea in in yoga
and in meditation that we each have
within us a piece of divinity
and that gets kind of confusing because
people like what the does that mean like
does that mean i can move out what does
that mean
people don't know what divinity is
and so i'd say like instead of trying to
understand divinity
from kind of like an ab like a logical
way or abstract way
there's something within you that once
you channel it like everything is just
good baby
it's like you feel alive you produce
better content you feel happier right
it's not like an abstract because you've
got the chair it's like a it's like an
experience of happiness
and it's not even like happiness like
you're laughing
it's not even emotional right because
that's the other thing that confuses
people about the word happiness is they
correlate happiness with positive
emotion but in the flow state what it
really is is when you're channeling that
divinity that's when you produce work
right so like i think it was the greeks
that talked about
genius is something that like strikes
you right so it's like this thing that
is not something you aren't a genius you
channel genius and so genius is like a
state of mind as opposed to a person
and so this state of flow like makes you
feel happy makes you feel alive not on
an emotional level not now i've got at
my big chair level but in that moment
you feel present you're not thinking
about the future you're not thinking
about where things are going you're not
thinking about metrics you're not
worried about whether you're doing a
good job or bad job and so what i really
call that i think like you've got a
taste of that which is like what they
just they use the word divinity because
they couldn't come up with what that is
right so they said that oh each each of
us has the spark of the divine because
if you look in you look in that moment
you're opie
right you're performing well you're
happier
you're like doing a fantastic job and
that sounds op so what we're going to
call that is the divine
and then they also went through a series
of like different practices and stuff to
cultivate that state to spend more time
in that state to advance beyond that
state into other states and then
eventually you get to something that
they called moksha
or enlightenment which has all of the
features of the crap that you've already
been describing like loss of ego and
other things like that which i know you
said you couldn't explain but i think
you did a very good job of because i
think you actually understand it because
it sounds like you've lived it
that's mushfield interesting
i said i i this this is making me like
what like when people say that like uh
you know
god told them to paint a
picture or something maybe that's like
that's their interpretation of
that or something it makes a lot of
sense
interesting thing there is
i'm not so sure that that's the case
because there's a great book by a guy
named
william james called the varieties of
religious experience and some artists
were like mentally ill or possibly
psychotic
or or maybe they had a spiritual
experience
like through prayer it's interesting but
what i do find is that that um
especially with like the creative like
people who i i i work with who make
music and and write and things like that
that they really have to like the more
they can cultivate that channeling of
divinity the more they sort of almost
accept that i can't control it because a
big part of like creative folks is that
they set themselves up with the
expectation of today i have to write
like a blockbuster piece of music and if
they
that expectation will paralyze them
whereas if they go back because their
first blockbuster came without any
expectation of being a blockbuster and
they made music for the sake of [ __ ]
making music
you know and that's what made it a
blockbuster and then they try to make a
blockbuster and then sometimes they they
succeed because it's procedurally
generated you know highly processed
kind of algorithmically driven stuff
it's like netflix is just adding a
sprinkling of a homosexual sex scene
somewhere in all of their shows you know
so sometimes it's driven like that but
then you have like you know the real
artistry behind certain shows where
people are like they're not trying to
make a blockbuster they're just trying
to tell a story or trying to you know
really make something genuine
that'll make perfect sense anyway i want
to just acknowledge that i've been
talking most of the time
and just checking with you about how you
feel about that like especially over the
last half hour or so
oh i think i i think that's that's
that's fine i uh i always say um like
like i already know what i think about
things and i know my so i i don't like
so i don't talk as much
you know especially on like my uh stream
and stuff
like i'm like you know i don't i already
know what i think about things you know
but i want to hear what you think
yeah i think what's so i would encourage
you to maybe share a little bit more
lyle because i i think you've happened
to stumble upon a lot of answers that
people are really looking for
um and unless i'm i'm totally misreading
you in terms of you know where you are
but it sounds to me like you've worked
really hard
for a long time and it may have looked
like non-traditional like heart like
it's not like you were sitting there and
reading books right but you were like
[ __ ] going comedy clubs at the age of
16.
and having like i see i appreciate you
saying that because i i uh
you know i i i don't read a lot of books
but uh you know i do think a lot about
things like you know
how to be yourself and accept discomfort
and all that and i'm not like uh
it's funny that because you know i i do
feel like that was a transformative
moment that i had when i was 16 and the
rock club and everything and um
and and and yet weirdly it doesn't like
like like that the whole thing of like
there is no there
like
you know i didn't at 16
embrace discomfort and then never feel
discomfort ever again like you know i i
still have times all the time where i'm
like
you know uncomfortable and i have to
just like think of
i i feel like i've developed like good
concepts for myself of like being
yourself and embracing discomfort but
they're they're just like concepts that
i am like following not so much that i
have mastered in any way shape or form
they're just like they're they're like
they drive me but i i i'm i'm still
you know on the on the path to getting
better
handles on them
yeah i think that makes a lot of sense
so i think part of the reason that you
understand so much is because you
haven't read a whole lot
what does that mean
exactly what it said so so understanding
so in the the yogis sort of realize that
there are two kinds of knowledge there's
vidya which is information which is
objective and which is transmissible
and then there's understanding
which is subjective not transmissible
and in in western society we trend tend
to rate vidya
as more than understanding or nyan which
is the other word video is the the
information one yeah so we tend to value
information over understanding and i
know that sounds kind of weird
but we want we want we value objectivity
over subjectivity but you can
understanding is
by definition like subjective right it's
not yeah like it's just how you
understand something right there has to
be a subject for understanding there
does not have to be a subject for
information yeah
yeah
and and so i think what you've managed
to do is like a lot of the things that
you're cut like you're stumbling upon
the same way that they have stumbled
upon for like you know and they kind of
came to these conclusions like oh
actually it's important to accept your
negative emotions it's important to
embrace those difficult things and then
there's sort of this idea i'm glad you
shared this that you know all the video
folks who hear the story of you and
they're like oh i need to have my
transformational moment in the bathroom
and then i'll be good then life will be
easy then i'll live my life with
confidence and i'll crush it and it's
like no no no you're still gonna
struggle with discomfort you just
it doesn't actually make it objectively
any better it makes it subjectively
better
sure yeah that makes sense um
yeah that's that that uh that like
information over understanding thing i i
think it's i think it's really true like
uh
i don't know i don't i don't have like
as much of a handle of like current
events as as a lot of people do um and i
feel like sort of uh
you know i guess in the way that the
internet works like everyone's talking
about a different thing every five
seconds and it's like and i know
sometimes i look at that i'm like but
there's that's not as interesting to me
as like all the problems and [ __ ]
that's you know people have been dealing
with for for thousands and thousands of
years that i don't really see a whole
lot of people uh
you know talking about you know i don't
talk about the current events or stuff
like that on on on my stream but like i
know that that's
sort of like a big driving thing in uh
in twitch and internet culture is like
you know talking about like oh here's
what happens like in the news or here's
like this youtuber that's feuding with
this youtuber or something like that and
uh i'm i'm very anti that and i'm like
you know
i like i like more sort of like uh uh
timeless or or broad concepts you know i
like talking about that more than that
kind of stuff i don't know what i just
said is related to anything that we were
talking about just now but uh that's how
i think about stuff
yeah so here's kind of what i heard i
heard that
um
you know you like to focus not so much
on like information but on like
understanding related stuff right so not
like what's going on and just
propagating and sharing like oh this is
going on here there this is kind of like
factual sort of objective kind of like
stuff
um and i i'm not surprised and what i
said what i meant by you know i think
it's because you don't have information
that you have understanding it's because
you don't read a lot that you understand
so much because i think what happens is
when people read something
they form an idea of it which can
sometimes actually get in the way of
understanding and the best example i can
think of is when people talk about sex
so like i remember when i was like 13
and my friends and i were like all
talking about sex and how amazing it is
and like you know you'll see like
everyone talking about sex and different
you know communities and stuff and then
like people will form notions of
sexuality or virginity or like what it's
supposed to be like or whatever and then
when when you actually start you know
having sex like
some of those preconceived notions that
you may get from watching pornography or
having conversations with people is like
can actually get in the way of you
understanding and appreciating the
experience for what it is
and once you start having sex and you
kind of become comfortable with it and
hopefully you have
you know a partner or more that that can
you guys can kind of explore things and
discover it kind of your own way then
you have your own understanding of it
which may be like completely foreign to
what you see in the pornos
but like the people in the pornos
may have lots of information about it
right like they have all this external
understanding
and oftentimes we see this a lot in
spirituality too like sometimes i'll get
people who are like read a bunch of
books on spirituality and they'll say
things like oh i'm gonna like live in
the moment so living in the moment means
i get to put my dick wherever i want to
when i feel like it and if if my
girlfriend has a problem with that well
that's just her being full of attachment
and she needs to be free and like
embrace her pain and
because if she embraced her pain and
embraced her discomfort it wouldn't be a
problem for her so like i'm going to
continue putting my dick wherever she
wants to wherever i want to and then if
she has a problem with it i'm living in
the moment i'm living in the present i'm
being happy i'm being me
and she's the one who's not un able to
embrace
her
discomfort
so they'll like take all these concepts
and like
sort of use them as rationalization or
justification
to propagate whatever negativity they're
propagating
and so i think on the other hand you've
just discovered on your own so like you
actually have sort of a like an
untouched understanding of things which
is great
i'm not surprised that
your stream is
successful well i appreciate that it's
uh i i started talking about this
earlier where it's like you know when
you're talking about the the the reading
versus the sort of something on the
things of my own it's like uh
you know sometimes i like think about
[ __ ] and i'll be like uh and if you
don't if like if you read something like
if something is presented to you within
the binds of a book or like it's being
said by some you know guy on the
internet who has a bunch of followers or
something it's like it's it's it's very
it's you you can accept it as more valid
than a thought that you stumble upon on
your own
so you know it it's uh
it's difficult to like val like validate
your own
thoughts
you know as opposed to your own like
thoughts and understandings as opposed
to like information that is presented to
you even though you know all information
just comes from just some other [ __ ]
person who understood it on their own
you know accord
well i think if you really tunnel down
there there's like a nuance there that's
pretty important which is that you keep
on using the words information and
understanding
so information can be validated
understanding cannot
but you can sort of validate it
internally
but when that person is actually
propagating is information and you
shouldn't compare your their information
to your understanding
ultimately i think the the reason i
share information is to catalyze
people's understanding
so and nothing i've said today is
correct it's just a framework
right so like i i really appreciated a
lot of what you said and i just sort of
tied it into things that i've read
because i thought it was like it's a
really cool example of like you know
last time i checked you haven't spent
you know years studying religious texts
so it's really awesome and it's actually
quite validating for me
to hear someone who's not formally
trained in any of this stuff start to
describe these experiences because
that's like oh wow like this is really
cool this person has not been polluted
by religious study and yet
they are coming up with these
conclusions so this actually gives me
more faith in what i've read because it
sounds like you kind of figured this
stuff out on your own which means that
it's more likely to be true because
anything that's true someone should be
able to figure out on their own
i love that that's that's pretty wild
yeah i don't know what you were
expecting today and i apologize if i you
know dominated the conversation oh oh no
i expected absolutely nothing i am
actually to be honest i'm like uh you
know
you know i i
when you sort of brought up the fact
like oh we don't have to like go in and
like find it because i guess i wasn't
expecting to like
try to find a problem with me yeah or
anything because i i don't think i have
like anything that's sort of glaring so
i'm glad that we've been able to have uh
a very great conversation without uh you
know having to do that
yeah
i mean i i think one of my teachers once
told me that you know you should have
the conversation in the room that you
need to have
and that's not always a conversation
about negative emotions
right it's like
our purpose here is to educate and
sometimes that education involves the
exploration of people's problems and
sometimes like today i think it involves
the exploration of their successes
that's awesome
any questions for me i feel like i i'm
kind of
i got out what i wanted what i felt was
appropriate
um cool i don't really have much else to
say but i'm happy to continue talking
for a little bit longer if you have
thoughts or questions that you want to
share
uh lots of questions that i want to
share um
i don't know i guess
nothing nothing nothing nothing strikes
to mind
off the bet
so is there anything from the chat i
don't know how often you
check so i i i think it's now is a great
time to check in with chat
sure
i usually try to once again to not break
the flow state i try to steer clear of
chat while i'm interviewing people yeah
that's that's that's another thing too
is like uh i i i don't look at chat when
i'm like on the i used to look a chat
while i was on the phone with people and
then like the chats the way that the
chat would like make judgments about the
person that i'm talking to the phone on
would like get into my head and i hated
that because i wanted to form my own
you know relationship with the person on
the phone so i stopped doing that
can the gecko levitate
can i levitate
um
there's price for that
so so there's a little bit of context
there lyle
in that context is yesterday we were
just talking a little bit about
meditation and there's an old text on
meditation that talks about how to
levitate
um
and so it's just it's actually like
considered by most scholars to be the
most important text
like historically about meditation or
yoga and and there's an entire chapter
in there about developing supernatural
powers
you know anyone that can levitate
um i'm gonna decline to answer that
question
um
is that okay of course
okay
um so someone's asking how do you go
about getting rid of expectations that
prevent the flow state
how do i go about getting rid of
expectations that prevent the flow
states
i don't know i i think i've recently
i've i've tried to make a better um
go at like recognizing those and just
deciding to
not give a [ __ ] about them like um
like i was like recently like you know
like before i go on a stream i'll just
be like i i don't i don't care how many
people are watching i don't care about
this i don't care about that i don't
care about this but i don't care about
that all i care about like i actually
sort of have a little
i you could call it a mental ritual of
like you know looking at myself in the
mirror and going all i'm going to focus
on
is my conversation with the person that
i'm talking to on the phone
um
and not any like you know looking at
view or chat or anything like that
um
[Music]
that's how i do it with this in this
particular case but uh
that's that's a great answer um
so i i just to kind of add one or two
kind of thoughts onto that one is i
think that
so if you listen to lyle he says he has
a ritual right so the subtle thing there
is that i think this is practiced
so like the more time so the first time
they've been in the bathroom when you
were 16
but
what i'm hearing is that you actually
have like a cognitive process that's
almost like working out
where you're like using your cognitive
muscles to let go of that expectation
um yeah
so i'd say for people who are struggling
like maybe start with or do you actually
look in the mirror like do you literally
look in the mirror
sometimes i literally look in the mirror
if if there's a mirror um
what do you say to yourself
i just say to myself like i don't think
like you know i i don't i don't have
like a like a mantra or anything like
that but i just sort of generally think
to myself like you know don't worry
about views don't worry about like you
know
chat or don't worry about job or like
how you're being don't worry about like
anything other than
trying to have uh you know a good
conversation
um and it is it is uh
it's it's weird getting because like
it's weird getting asked about like how
to rid myself negative expectations for
two reasons one is that i totally
i i i never ever ever want to present
myself as like
an expert on anything because everything
that like like getting like you know
getting rid of negative expectations
like not negative but just getting rid
of expectations something like i'm
trying to do i present it like like that
concept i present is like uh
something that i'm trying to do not
something that i've like mastered or
anything like that uh
but then two like uh
what i have like any any work that i
have done
on that uh is very much just like
putting in like reps of it i think
what's wrong with presenting yourself as
an expert
what does that mean to present yourself
as an expert
are you presenting yourself as an expert
i don't know i just like
i this see this is a sort of a thing
that i get into on my stream maybe now
we could talk about like the whole uh
thing of um
you know i don't really i know the show
is called therapy gecko
and it is like
it's i don't i don't like calling it an
advice show for that particular reason
that i feel like to have an advice show
you inherently have to present yourself
as like
i know things ask me for advice because
i will give you the answer because i
know
you know and i hate doing that um
i guess what's wrong with that um
i don't know it it it feels like a
disingenuous way to present myself i
guess
i think that makes a lot of sense so i
think disingenually presenting yourself
as an expert is probably not a good idea
and at the same time lyle i would
encourage you that you know if someone
asks you a question
yeah that you know when you give your
answer you can give it as not an expert
or you can give it
lateral to the axis of expert
right you can just give your answer
and let it be what it is and let them
just share what you have to share
you know maybe that's something you know
i actually kind of like you know i have
a thing with is like how do i
how do i like
you know i have all these people like
you know who will sometimes like call me
and ask me for advice
and i'm like how do i balance the fact
that like maybe i have an idea of
something i want to tell them
but i don't want to present it as the
golden answer but then like you know if
if i'm gonna be like you know if people
are gonna ask me stuff like i i should i
should present myself
i should answer things confidently and
not like give up on my thoughts because
they're not validated but the same hand
like you know on on the same thing it's
like i don't
i don't like to feel like i know
anything you know it's that whole thing
of like you know all i know is that no
nothing and all that uh
like
i think that's a problem so that's your
ego interesting
okay so your ego is uncomfortable
with the idea of presenting yourself as
someone who knows things
but i would say that you are neither
someone who knows things or someone who
doesn't know things you just are what
you are
yeah and i i think you've actually done
this really well because i think that
i think you should so i would encourage
you to just step away from all that crap
and just share when people call in just
give them whatever is inside
right channel that get like just share
whatever you've got down there because i
think there's a reason why people are
calling you and by the way i don't know
if you know this but
wearing a gecko costume and painting
your face green i think makes it pretty
clear to people that they're talking to
someone who's like
they're talking to a guy who dresses up
as a [ __ ] gecko
i i'm not afraid of i'm not afraid of
i'm not afraid of accidentally present
i'm not afraid of accidentally
accidentally presenting myself as
literally a professional i think
everyone who calls me yeah knows that
i'm not like actually a real thing but
it's more like in the
but but
what i'm saying is like i think you you
clearly are presenting yourself is just
you so just give them you
and if you if you you don't you don't
have to offer a disclaimer that i'm not
of an expert on this
i mean just look at you bro
right like i don't i think you go out of
your way sure to make it clear to people
that you're just a dude in a gecko
costume which paradoxically
i think like the more that you embrace
that authenticity the closer to the
divinity that you get and don't let
yourself edit what you're about to say
because of the concern that you could
come across as an expert because that's
going to shatter the flow state
so if someone calls
into a show on twitch where there's a
guy who's dressed up in a green gecko
costume
i don't think you have to worry about
like overselling your qualifications i
think you just give them what they're
calling this in for
because it's good [ __ ]
there's kind of another thing of like
and i and i i think i've been able to
recognize the fact that like you know if
people didn't want
my whatever on whatever they wouldn't
have called in but then there's a thing
where like
i think
if if i okay i feel like if i can give
good advice on something you know
there's this expectation i could give
good advice on anything like like like
if i have an 18 year old college student
call in and go
how do i make friends in college i feel
like i could actually
really like talk with that guy and like
give some you know what i what i would
feel is good advice but then if someone
calls in is like
uh i'm 38 years old and i'm about to be
a mother for the first time do you have
any advice on that no
i don't and i want to be comfortable
with the ability to be like
yeah for that specific thing i i i have
nothing to say about that
you know
um so we can talk because
that is that is what i say yeah
i think that's beautiful
so i think you could say i'm i'm a 22 23
year old 22 year old dude
yeah in a gecko costume
and unfortunately i don't know how to
advise you about being a 38 year old
mother for the first time
but i'd love to talk to you for a few
minutes
you know and this is where you can toss
out you know question like what are you
afraid of
what are you concerned about
that's what i that's what i kind of do
if i get into a situation like that is
like i'll just ask them questions and
not like
try to
give advice or anything just sort of
beautiful
i've been told um
sometimes i'll get someone like who's
like a real therapist and this is kind
of sort of what happened with this where
it's like someone who's a real therapist
would be like hey you might not know
this but what you're doing is like this
thing called motivational interviewing
and then i'll like go and look at that
and i'll be like oh that's kind of
interesting so that's like what i'll
like uh just you know
ask questions instead of trying to give
advice or anything like that
yeah so i i think something you know
weird has happened if you look at the
research on therapy
so people will will do studies and
they'll look at like
different kinds of therapies so you'll
have like different kinds of therapy
like very
drastically different you'll have
mindfulness-based therapies you'll have
cognitive behavioral therapy you'll have
psychoanalysis
and like those are like very different
one is like worksheets and homework and
stuff like that and the other one is
like laying down on the couch where dude
sits behind you and doesn't a woman sits
behind you doesn't say anything for
four hours a week right those are very
different like worksheets and homework
and so people were kind of curious
because if you look at most of the
therapies
they tend to have comparable outcomes so
if i have depression
and this is sort of an over
generalization and i go see a
psychoanalyst for four hours a week or i
go see a cvt therapist for one hour a
week it turns out that generally
speaking i get the same amount of batter
and so then people got really confused
because they're like which kind of
therapy is best
turns out that they're all comparable
and then people are like how the hell
does that work because they're doing
such drastically different things
and then what they sort of discovered is
that
they did something called common factors
research and what they sort of realized
is that like if you look at what is
responsible for the improvement it isn't
a particular modality it's a set of what
they call common factors that are
universal to all therapy
so one of those things is for example
like being a good listener
and so then the really interesting thing
is that if you look at some of those
common factors of of therapy what you
discover is that there are a lot of
other situations where those common
factors apply right so like you don't
have to be a therapist to be a good
listener
you don't have to be a therapist to like
you know answer questions and provide
advice and try to help people understand
themselves we have a lot of different
professions and situations you do it
with your friends
bartenders are famous for doing this
stuff right like you go and you talk to
your bartender and your bartender is
like actually like a trained listener
it's like part of their job
you know sometimes in religious
professions and things like that you'll
get you know folks who are like you know
will offer counsel and advice and will
ask like important questions and stuff
like that there's also the field of
coaching which is emerging and one of
the core competencies of coaching is
what they call asking powerful questions
and so i'm not surprised that you know
what you were doing has been described
in therapy but i don't know that that i
mean i think that long before there was
therapy people were asking
questions of each other
yes that were like impactful and help
people were like emotionally supporting
themselves like each other like
long before there was therapy
and so now you have like narrative
therapy and art therapy like people were
[ __ ] painting on in caves for like
thousands of years and chances are it
was therapeutic so it's kind of like i
think you got to be careful when it
comes to therapy because i'm not
surprised that people are saying hey
you're doing something called
motivational interviewing like how do
people come up with motivational
interviewing
it's because they observed the things
that regular humans do that like seemed
to help motivate people
and they kind of like figured that out
and then they codified it and formalized
it and figured out where the money is
and things like that but i'm not
surprised at all that you know
the irony of you calling yourself a
therapist and winding up doing something
that looks a lot like therapy but i
think that's more just because it's not
that it's therapy it's just that there's
a lot of basic human stuff that for some
reason therapy has seemed to like claim
yeah
i think we also see this in things like
alcoholics anonymous where like you know
people do a lot of things that inter
they do a lot of interventions with each
other they're not trained in therapy but
they do lead to positive clinical
outcomes in addiction improvement and
they like emotionally support each other
and they're there for each other but
that doesn't mean that they're doing
therapy it just means they're being
emotionally supportive
but somewhere along the way i think that
that definition got kind of muddled
but anyway it's just because i one of
the big things that i like if um and
again i don't i i hate the idea of like
centering um my
like
i don't i don't like referring to it as
an advice show it's more of like a i'd
call it a chat
show more than advice but um
typically like if someone ever does come
to me with like something that i i feel
like is absolutely 100 above you know my
pay grade uh the question i'll ask them
is like
do you have a real therapist and what
did they say about this when you
told them i've always wondered like what
like uh
you know
how does how does a like like sometimes
people come to me thinks i'm like i have
no idea
how the hell to respond to this in any
way shape or form and i'm like what what
what do you learn in like
psychology
school or whatever that like teaches you
how to like respond to these
things you know
so i'd say there are like two things
that you learn
one is like if you look at the
curriculum right so if you look at
curriculums for
therapy
so if you become like i'm a medical
doctor so that the curriculum that i
went to with through was like psychiatry
which is like the practice of medicine
that is focused on
pathology relating to the mind
right so we are i'm a medical doctor
which means that i treat patients who
have something busted and so a
cardiologist will work with people whose
heart is messed up you know an
endocrinologist will work with people
like diabetes a pediatrician will work
with children i will work with people
who have trouble with their mind so we
get training in pathology so we'll get
training in like bipolar disorder major
depressive disorder generalized anxiety
disorder and then people get a little
bit confused because remember that
sadness and depression and anxiety are
all normal human experiences what do we
get trained in we get trained in the
pathological version of those right so
when anxiety reaches a particular
threshold where it in interferes with
your ability to function as a human
being
then you get diagnosed with a disorder
so we see those people
so that's kind of what our formal
training is in right so it's like mostly
in pathology and stuff like that
then the other thing that i'd say you
learn which is not necessarily something
that you get trained in
but you know when you become a
psychiatrist or a therapist when you do
clinical work you just get experience
sitting with people who are going
through really bad [ __ ]
yeah
and and i think that like you know
that's not really a formal part of your
training like it's not like there's a
class for you know how to deal with
people whose life is just awful
now you can diagnose with them with
trauma or whatever but like you know one
of my
one of the best nurses that i worked
with
she would sometimes say she was an er
nurse and she would i ask her you know
what what is the patient in room 12 like
what's going on with them and then she
had this acronym sls which is [ __ ] life
syndrome
and you can call it like some kind of
you know depression or bipolar disorder
or whatever but like we just sometimes
get these kids in the emergency room
like their 17 year old kid has been like
in foster care for 12 years sexually
abused at the age of four
you know just like really terrible stuff
has behavioral problems has substance
use problems
you know has like it went to juvie for a
year and like what's the kid's problem
the kid's problem is that they had a
[ __ ] life
like it's not like they're ill like sure
they have manifestations of illness and
they have trouble like you know
following rules and like they have
intermittent explosive kind of problems
but the problem is like they've just had
like
they've got a really crappy spawn you
know that's the real problem if you want
to blame something it's just like the
circumstances of their [ __ ] life it's
not really their fault
and so the other thing that i think you
learn as a clinician is when you you
know when you work in hospitals for four
years and you sit with those kinds of
people and you like talk to them and you
get to know them
it allows you to be able to like handle
and sit with things that as you call it
or above your pay grade because you just
because what else are you going to do
like you're the one who's on call that
kid is there you've got to go in and try
to help them
and so you just show up and you kind of
do the best that you can and i think a
lot of it is really just trial by fire
and
you know i'd say that
the most important thing that i learned
with kids with [ __ ] life syndrome is not
to be a clinician it's to be a human
and that's what they need more than
anything else
interesting i like that
and i think that you're fully qualified
to do you can be human sure sure sure
even though you're a gecko
um
no it's it's uh it's it's we're actually
like i kind of feel that like uh you
know the more that uh i i do this um and
i i i try to invite people to like um
that it's it's you know if
i i feel like i'm trying to create a
space where that you know it's more
lighthearted than not uh
so but you know um
i think the more that uh i've gotten uh
a call that i don't know how to respond
to the better i've gotten with dealing
with with that
um
yeah like uh like i did i did i do like
live shows every once in a while i
started i've been redoing that recently
and um i always like i had this
impression that uh people who
you know uh i've started like uh the
first half i'll like take phone calls
and they're gonna bring people up from
the audience and when people come up
from the audience i have this like
expectation that uh the the subject
matter that they will want to talk about
is a little bit more lighthearted than
not and i had this guy come on at one of
the live shows who like got really like
sort of serious and deep
with me about um like his
his um
wife like recently opened up their
marriage and uh like he wasn't able to
um like
you know find other people to have sex
with but she was and that was making him
insecure and like i and and uh he was
like really going off and i was not
expecting this
whatsoever but um
weirdly i didn't
i don't know i didn't feel like nervous
or like oh [ __ ] what the [ __ ] am i gonna
do i just kind of like let him
talk
uh
and sat in that moment
um
and it and i think it ended up turning
out okay but uh
yeah i don't know i i i i
i'm trying to figure out how to deal
with stuff like that when it occurs and
i've i've found that i just sort of uh
sit in it and let them let them keep
talking if i don't have anything to say
that's typically what i do if i don't
have anything to say is i just
let them know yeah so i think that
that's
you know
sounds very
therapeutic to me
doesn't mean that it's therapy right
like but
i think you know just giving human
beings like just being human first and
foremost
is what it sounds like like that person
just needs you to be human in the gecko
costume
and then secondly you know if you really
want to know how to you know help people
and and
really want to like
you know in a sense get get better in a
particular dimension of what you do
because i think you're quite good and
you know how to get better what you do
you can also you know become a therapist
if you really feel like it right so like
you can go through those those kinds of
those kinds of trainings and really
learn
in a guided fashion i'm not recommending
it i'm just saying like that's one of
the options
sure i you know people tell me that all
the time and i always i'm like i would
never want to be a therapist in my
entire life i think that would be uh
because i don't
you know thing things like what i just
described like happen
but i i'd prefer if they stayed
you know in the ratio of like 10
or less of the uh yeah overall i i i you
know
i like being you know like uh i like i i
you know i do twitch to like you know
entertain and community and stuff not
necessarily um
i want to do like you know be be a
be a therapist
true or anything like that but uh
yeah i don't know i think that would be
that would be hard maybe too hard i
think it makes sense man i think it
sounds to me like what you enjoy doing
is being an entertainer
you like being kind of funny and
available to people but just because
you're an entertainer doesn't mean that
you can't help people
and as some people said have said in the
past laughter is the best medicine for
sure for sure
so i think sometimes you get some heavy
stuff i think that just speaks to
the atmosphere that you create in
people's comfort
in terms of coming on and being able to
share that and like knowing that i know
it sounds kind of weird but if they if i
can imagine how much courage and shame
that person must have been feeling
then they kind of came on
and also like to know that
i'm gonna go up and talk to a dude in a
gecko costume and no one is going to
laugh at me
like that's quite the achievement in
terms of the atmosphere you've created
the one one actually
probably
among the biggest problems that i have
with the stream is
i'm really is is is balancing out the
the atmosphere in a way because i i i
want to like reserve the right to like
you know [ __ ] around and like you know
not be a jerk to callers but like you
know be whatever little gecko character
you know but but also reserve like like
a very lighthearted energy but then also
like you know
reserve all the other stuff and like
really trying to find that balance has
actually been
pretty sort of difficult
i think i can imagine
so i think i think lyle i encourage you
to keep trying man because i think that
what we're seeing is that
how can i say this
i feel like the the line between
entertainment and therapy
is
narrowing so i think like like i know it
sounds kind of weird but like
therapy used to be therapy is the place
that we used to contain all of the bad
stuff in life and entertainment used to
be the way that we
like the place where we keep all the
good stuff in life
and i i don't know if you've uh seen or
heard you know inside by bo burnham
but but
i think like that's a prime example of
him like
in a very like entertaining and comedic
way like offering a lot of really
awesome
insight and even support to people who
are like really really struggling
and and so i think striking that balance
between like being a place where people
can come and laugh but also like people
can come and like
say some heavy [ __ ] and we can all kind
of laugh about it like together
like that's increasingly important
because i think it's these weird kinds
of interventions
that we really need like into mental
health arena which are not just
treatment it's sort of like you look at
physical health you know we have
nutrition we have exercise all of those
things improve cardiovascular health but
are not medicine
the problem is that it when it comes to
like mental health like we don't really
have
those well-developed societal like
support structures which i think
sometimes you'll see people like you
know comedians and stuff like that i
think dave chappelle actually does a
decent job of this too where he you know
talks about like toxicity and like
things like that sometimes we'll have
you know folks that are a little bit
more
um
[Music]
you know like i think jordan peterson's
another i know he's a divisive figure
but i think he's like a good example of
someone who's like talking about mental
health without it being treatment
and so i think you being able to strike
that balance between like heavy and
comedic is actually like really
important societally
it's what we hear a lot on twitch is
that you know a lot of streamers are
there for like mental health support for
their communities
sure because
you know there's nowhere else to get it
like we're not getting enough of
whatever that emotional nutrition is so
we got to get it from a dude in a green
gecko costume
here i guess i have this fear of like uh
you know i if if i if i ever like you
know my stream just becomes
you know heavy calls and like
i i wouldn't want to do it anymore sure
you know if it was like
just
that you know i i'd like to
i don't know it's been it's been a
really hard uh sort of sort of balance
of
those um
those things but um i i totally see what
you're saying i think uh
i think it's it's a good
yeah he wants to to learn how to strike
makes sense man
listen i gotta get going um for sure
kind of last thoughts or questions
before we wrap up
uh
no i think we're we're good thank you so
much for having me this was this was
good yeah man i really loved it so two
or three kind of final points one is i
normally teach meditation at the end of
the stream but i'm not teaching because
i'm sick
and my teachers have told me not to
instruct in meditation when i'm ill so i
apologize for that you know if you're
interested in learning something down
the road um let us know you should get
an acc access to um
dr k's guide to mental health because
you're a guest on the stream
and there's one video in particular if
you're curious about there's a video on
vidya and nyan which is sort of that
information understanding thing that we
kind of talked a little bit about
but there's also some stuff about kind
of like confidence and not sort of like
developing the flow state and stuff like
that a lot of things that we talked
about there i would check out the
meditation portion of the guide because
not as directly as we talked about it
here but a lot of those concepts i think
if you're curious about there's more
information there are particular
practices and stuff like that so i
apologize that i can't teach you today
and the second thing is do you want to
let people know where they can find you
we posted your info at the beginning
yeah absolutely
uh i'm on
i'm on uh twitch.tv slash lyle forever
l-y-l-e-f-o-r-e-v-e-r and i'm also on uh
youtube
uh youtube.com lyle forever i have a
podcast on the spotify an apple podcast
called therapy gecko
uh i'm on instagram at lyle
the number four
ever
and uh yeah that's it
all right thanks a lot lyle and listen
man absolutely huge fan of your work
best of luck to you and and i think just
keep doing what you're doing man because
i think the internet needs it bro
thank you man i appreciate it take care
man bye
take care dr k hey any recommendations
on who we should raid i'm just going to
ask you who should we i don't know who's
streaming right now uh
the last chat then raids raider uh
random someone with zero viewers
okay all right we'll we'll we'll try to
find someone all right take care guys
thanks for coming on bye absolutely
thank you
[Music]
all right
tasty steve